Distributed tracing 2.9 (#62410)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-web-console.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//* distr_tracing_tempo/distr-tracing-tempo-installing.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="distr-tracing-tempo-install-web-console_{context}"]

> = Installing the {TempoShortName} by using the OpenShift web console

Author: Thank you. I considered using it, but the problem is the product title has a very long name that's not good for readability.

You can install the {TempoShortName} in the OpenShift web console.

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to the OpenShift web console as a cluster administrator with the `cluster-admin` role.

* You are using a supported provider of object storage: link:https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift-data-foundation[Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation], link:https://min.io/[MinIO], link:https://aws.amazon.com/s3/[Amazon S3], link:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/storage/blobs/[Azure Blob Storage], link:https://cloud.google.com/storage/[Google Cloud Storage].

> .Procedure

Author: I agree that second-level ordered list items and the other details that you've mentioned are not ideal, but the alternative of breaking it into multiple procedures also has its drawbacks, including readability drawbacks (like having to complete several procedures instead of one).

. Install the {TempoOperator}:

.. In the *Administrator* view of the OpenShift web console, go to *Operators* -> *OperatorHub* and search for `{TempoOperator}`.

.. Select *{TempoOperator}* that is *OpenShift Operator for Tempo* -> *Install* -> *Install* -> *View Operator*.

> +

Author: Thank you. This is a great suggestion. I'm moving this info into the assembly info.

[IMPORTANT]
====
This installs the Operator with the default presets:

* *Update channel* -> *stable*
* *Installation mode* -> *All namespaces on the cluster*
* *Installed Namespace* -> *openshift-operators*
* *Update approval* -> *Automatic*
====

> .. In the *Details* tab of the installed Operator page, under *ClusterServiceVersion details*, verify that the installation *Status* is *Succeeded*.

Reviewer: Do we need to verify this step because i did not find the *Details* tab on the *Installed Operator* page? Also, we need to move the verification step to the .verification section.

> .. In the *Details* tab of the installed Operator page, under *ClusterServiceVersion details*, verify that the installation *Status* is *Succeeded*.

Author: Tank you. It's in the installed Operator page, not the *Installed Operator* page. I am rewording this to avoid possible confusion.

> .. In the *Details* tab of the installed Operator page, under *ClusterServiceVersion details*, verify that the installation *Status* is *Succeeded*.

Author: Unfortunately, I cannot move this into the .Verification section because this a step in the middle of the procedure.

> . Create a Secret for your object storage bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a secret for your object storage bucket.
```

+

> You can do this in the *Administrator* view of the OpenShift web console: go to *Workloads* -> *Secrets* -> *Create* -> *From YAML*.

Reviewer: * In the *Administrator* view of the OpenShift Container Platform web console, go to *Workloads* -> *Secrets* -> *Create* -> *From YAML*.

+
--
include::snippets/distr-tracing-tempo-required-secret-parameters.adoc[]
--
+
--

> include::snippets/distr-tracing-tempo-secret-example.adoc[]

Reviewer: Again, the table in the middle of the procedure is breaking the reading flow. I would suggest to move the table out of the procedure. We can place the info before this procedure so that users have the context set that while creating a secret, they must use those secret parameters.

Author: Thank you. I really like your suggestion. I will implement it as an improvement in a separate PR after this one.

--

> . Create an OpenShift project of your choice for the *TempoStack* instance that you will create in the next step.
> +
> You can do this in the *Administrator* view of the OpenShift web console: go to *Home* -> *Projects* -> *Create Project*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a project of your choice for the *TempoStack* instance that you will create in the next step.
+
* In the *Administrator* view of the OpenShift Container Platform web console, go to *Home* -> *Projects* -> *Create Project*.
```
use the attribute define for the OpenShift Container Platform in the above text.

. Create a *TempoStack* instance.
+

> NOTE: You can create multiple *TempoStack* instances in separate projects on the same cluster.

Reviewer: We can move this note out of this procedure. A user must know this info before starting the procedure, not in the middle of the procedure.

Author: Thank you. I already mentioned this in the page intro. I've mentioned it here to reinforce the possibility.

+

> You can create a *TempoStack* instance as follows:

Reviewer: we can remove this line as it looks repetitive

Author: Thank you, removing.

.. Go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
+
[TIP]
====

> You can use the *Project:* dropdown list to select the OpenShift project that you created for the *TempoStack* instance in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the *Project:* dropdown list to select the project that you created for the *TempoStack* instance in the previous step.
```

Author: I add OpenShift for clarity. Since our users are developers, a project can mean something the application user is working on.

====

.. Select *TempoStack* -> *Create TempoStack* -> *YAML view*.

.. In the *YAML view*, customize the `TempoStack` custom resource (CR):
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoStack
metadata:
  name: sample
  namespace: <openshift_project_of_tempostack_instance>
spec:
  storageSize: 1Gi
  storage:
    secret:
      name: <secret-name> <1>
      type: <secret-provider> <2>
  template:
    queryFrontend:
      jaegerQuery:
        enabled: true
        ingress:
          route:
            termination: edge
          type: route
----

> <1> The value of `name` in the `metadata` of the Secret.
> <2> The accepted values are `azure` for Azure Blob Storage, `gcs` for Google Cloud Storage, and `s3` for Amazon S3 or MinIO or Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation.
> +
> .TempoStack CR for AWS S3 and MinIO storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The value of the `name` field in the `metadata` of the secret.
<2> The accepted values are `azure` for Azure Blob Storage, `gcs` for Google Cloud Storage, and `s3` for AWS S3, MinIO, or Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation.
+
.`TempoStack` CR for AWS S3 and MinIO storage providers
```

Reviewer: Any attribute for `Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation`?

> ====

Reviewer: Add a lead-in sentence before the example:
The following example shows how to customize the TempoStack CR for AWS S3 and MinIO storage providers:

Author: I'd like to avoid fluff and repetition. The title and the content of this code block example seems to be sufficiently clear.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoStack
metadata:
  name: simplest
  namespace: <openshift_project_of_tempostack_instance>
spec:
  storageSize: 1Gi
  storage:
    secret:
      name: minio-test
      type: s3
  resources:
    total:
      limits:
        memory: 2Gi
        cpu: 2000m
  template:
    queryFrontend:
      jaegerQuery:
        enabled: true
        ingress:
          route:
            termination: edge
          type: route
----
The stack deployed in this example is configured to receive Jaeger Thrift over HTTP and OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP), which permits visualizing the data with the Jaeger UI.
====

> .. Select *Create*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Click *Create*.
```

Author: Thank you. I prefer to use `select` over `click` for reasons of accessibility.

.Verification

> . Use the *Project:* dropdown list to select the OpenShift project of the *TempoStack* instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use the *Project:* dropdown list to select the project of the *TempoStack* instance.
```

> . Go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* to verify that the *Status* of the TempoStack is *Condition: Ready*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* to verify that the *Status* of the *TempoStack* instance is *Condition: Ready*.
```

Author: Thank you. Applied.

> . Go to *Workloads* -> *Pods* to verify that all the TempoStack component pods are running.
> 
> . Go to *Networking* -> *Route* to get the Route for the TempoStack query UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Go to *Workloads* -> *Pods* to verify that all the *TempoStack* component pods are running.

. Go to *Networking* -> *Route* to get the route for the *TempoStack* query UI.
```
Global comment: if TempoStack is part of the console UI, then use the formatting **TempoStack**. If TempoStack is part of any CR, use the formatting `TempoStack`.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//* distr_tracing_tempo/distr-tracing-tempo-installing.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="distr-tracing-tempo-install-web-console_{context}"]
= Installing the {TempoShortName} by using the OpenShift web console

> You can install the {TempoShortName} by using the *Administrator* view of the OpenShift web console.

Author: Sure. If it's a question of style/repo guidelines, I'll apply your suggestion here and then update it throughout the distributed tracing directories.

.Prerequisites

> * You are logged in to the OpenShift web console as a cluster administrator with the `cluster-admin` role. For {product-dedicated}, you must be logged in using an account with the `dedicated-admin` role.

Author: > (or leave the product name off entirely)
Thank you for the suggestion. I think this is great!

> * You are logged in to the OpenShift web console as a cluster administrator with the `cluster-admin` role. For {product-dedicated}, you must be logged in using an account with the `dedicated-admin` role.

Author: Thank you. Done in [this commit](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/62410/commits/0c8dba1bfabd4084019fb619b01b73de18369a2f).

. Create a *TempoStack* instance.
+
NOTE: You can create multiple *TempoStack* instances in separate projects on the same cluster.

.. Go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
+
[TIP]
====
You can use the *Project:* dropdown list to select the OpenShift project that you created for the *TempoStack* instance in the previous step.
====

.. Select *TempoStack* -> *Create TempoStack* -> *YAML view*.

.. In the *YAML view*, customize the `TempoStack` custom resource (CR):
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoStack
metadata:
  name: sample
  namespace: <openshift_project_of_tempostack_instance>
spec:
  storageSize: 1Gi
  storage:
    secret:
      name: <secret-name> <1>
      type: <secret-provider> <2>
  template:
    queryFrontend:
      jaegerQuery:
        enabled: true
        ingress:
          route:
            termination: edge
          type: route
----
<1> The value of the `name` in the `metadata` of the Secret.
<2> The accepted values are `azure` for Azure Blob Storage, `gcs` for Google Cloud Storage, and `s3` for Amazon S3 or MinIO or Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation.
+
.TempoStack CR for AWS S3 and MinIO storage

> ====

Reviewer 2: I think we want to avoid this, since it seems to separate the title from the block. I don't know a hard rule on this, but this is the first time I have ever seen it in docs, so I would lean towards staying consistent in presentation. You can still have the line that follows it attach to the block inline under it without the box.

Author: This is a standard AsciiDoc formatting for examples.

If you have `.Secret for Amazon S3 and MinIO storage ====`, the heading will be rendered as `Example 5. Secret for Amazon S3 and MinIO storage`.

If you have `.Secret for Amazon S3 and MinIO storage ----`, the heading will be rendered as `Secret for Amazon S3 and MinIO storage`.

Anyway, I've removed the `====` syntax from all of my examples here that don't have introductory text.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoStack
metadata:
  name: simplest
  namespace: <openshift_project_of_tempostack_instance>
spec:
  storageSize: 1Gi
  storage:
    secret:
      name: minio-test
      type: s3
  resources:
    total:
      limits:
        memory: 2Gi
        cpu: 2000m
  template:
    queryFrontend:
      jaegerQuery:
        enabled: true
        ingress:
          route:
            termination: edge
          type: route
----
The stack deployed in this example is configured to receive Jaeger Thrift over HTTP and OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP), which permits visualizing the data with the Jaeger UI.
====

.. Select *Create*.

.Verification

. Use the *Project:* dropdown list to select the OpenShift project of the *TempoStack* instance.

. Go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* to verify that the *Status* of the *TempoStack* instance is *Condition: Ready*.

> . Go to *Workloads* -> *Pods* to verify that all the component Pods of the *TempoStack* instance are running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Go to *Workloads* -> *Pods* to verify that all the component pods of the *TempoStack* instance are running.
```

.. Verify that pods are created on the namespace?
.. Verify/watch/check somewhere (where?) in the OpenShift web console UI that the stack has stabilized.
. Is there any Tempo UI console? If so, how does the user open it?

> . Any other verification steps?

Author: @rubenvp8510 and @IshwarKanse, when you can find the time, could you come up with suggested changes for these lines here?

        enabled: true
        ingress:
          route:
            termination: edge
          type: route
----
<1> The value of the `name` in the `metadata` of the Secret.
<2> The accepted values are `azure` for Azure Blob Storage, `gcs` for Google Cloud Storage, and `s3` for Amazon S3 or MinIO or Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation.
+
.TempoStack CR for AWS S3 and MinIO storage
====
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoStack
metadata:
  name: simplest
  namespace: <openshift_project_of_tempostack_instance>
spec:
  storageSize: 1Gi
  storage:
    secret:
      name: minio-test
      type: s3
  resources:
    total:
      limits:
        memory: 2Gi
        cpu: 2000m
  template:
    queryFrontend:
      jaegerQuery:
        enabled: true
        ingress:
          route:
            termination: edge
          type: route
----
The stack deployed in this example is configured to receive Jaeger Thrift over HTTP and OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP), which permits visualizing the data with the Jaeger UI.
====

.. Select *Create*.

.Verification

. Use the *Project:* dropdown list to select the OpenShift project of the *TempoStack* instance.

> . Go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* to verify that the *Status* of the TempoStack is *Condition: Ready*.

Author: ```suggestion
. Go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* to verify that the *Status* of the TempoStack instance is *Condition: Ready*.
```

// https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/web_console/web-console.html
// https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/admin_solutions/user_role_mgmt.html#creating-a-cluster-administrator

* You are using a supported provider of object storage: link:https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift-data-foundation[Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation], link:https://min.io/[MinIO], link:https://aws.amazon.com/s3/[Amazon S3], link:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/storage/blobs/[Azure Blob Storage], link:https://cloud.google.com/storage/[Google Cloud Storage].

.Procedure

. Install the {TempoOperator}:

.. In the *Administrator* view of the OpenShift web console, go to *Operators* -> *OperatorHub* and search for `{TempoOperator}`.

.. Select *{TempoOperator}* that is *OpenShift Operator for Tempo* -> *Install* -> *Install* -> *View Operator*.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
This installs the Operator with the default presets:

* *Update channel* -> *stable*
* *Installation mode* -> *All namespaces on the cluster*

> * *Installed Namespace* -> *openshift-operators*

Reviewer 3: In the product build, we have default namespace 'openshift-tempo-operator' for Tempo operator installation.

+
.TempoStack CR for AWS S3 and MinIO storage
====
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoStack
metadata:
  name: simplest
  namespace: tempostacknamespace
spec:
  storageSize: 1Gi
  storage:
    secret:
      name: minio-test
      type: s3
  resources:
    total:
      limits:
        memory: 2Gi
        cpu: 2000m
  template:
    queryFrontend:
      jaegerQuery:
        enabled: true
        ingress:
          route:
            termination: edge
          type: route
----
The stack deployed in this example is configured to receive Jaeger Thrift over HTTP and OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP), which permits visualizing the data with the Jaeger UI.
====

.. Select *Create*.

link:https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/62410/files#r1284356755[Waiting for SME input for the following:]

* Step to verify successful deployment of the TempoStack instance
+
For example:
** Verify that pods are created on the namespace?
** Verify/watch/check somewhere (where?) in the OpenShift web console UI that the stack has stabilized.
* Is there any Tempo UI console? If so, how does the user open it?

> * Any other verification steps?

Author: @rubenvp8510 and @IshwarKanse, when you can find the time, could you come up with suggested changes for these lines here?

Reviewer 3: I've left comments in 'distr-tracing-tempo-install-cli.adoc' , we can use the same commands here to verify TempoStack instance and getting the route to access the TempoStack query UI.

  storage:
    secret:
      name: <secret-name> <1>
      type: <secret-provider> <2>
  template:
    queryFrontend:
      jaegerQuery:
        enabled: true
        ingress:
          route:
            termination: edge
          type: route
----
<1> The value of `name` in the `metadata` of the Secret.
<2> The accepted values are `azure` for Azure Blob Storage, `gcs` for Google Cloud Storage, and `s3` for Amazon S3 or MinIO or Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation.
+
.TempoStack CR for AWS S3 and MinIO storage
====
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoStack
metadata:
  name: simplest
  namespace: tempostacknamespace
spec:
  storageSize: 1Gi
  storage:
    secret:
      name: minio-test
      type: s3
  resources:
    total:
      limits:
        memory: 2Gi
        cpu: 2000m
  template:
    queryFrontend:
      jaegerQuery:
        enabled: true
        ingress:
          route:
            termination: edge
          type: route
----
The stack deployed in this example is configured to receive Jaeger Thrift over HTTP and OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP), which permits visualizing the data with the Jaeger UI.
====

.. Select *Create*.

> link:https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/62410/files#r1284564005[Waiting for SME input for the following:]

Author: ```suggestion
```
